The Krasnoyarsk-Gilesnodarosny district court has begun consideration of the criminal case
against Andrei Stupnikov, a peaceful believer accused of extremism.
He is accused of a crime under Article 282.2 Part 1 of the Criminal Code, namely organizing
the activity of an organization that has been liquidated by a court decision for carrying
out so-called extremist activity.
Andrei Stupnikov was not one of the founding members of such organizations and was never
a member of any of their agencies.
The religion was not banned.
This was specifically pointed out by the court that ruled to liquidate the legal entities,
but the indictment states.
Andrei Stupnikov took steps to maintain and increase the number of followers or the
said religious teaching.
Later religion cannot exist without followers who profess certain beliefs.
Andrei and Olga have been married for 27 years.
They say Bible knowledge makes their lives strong and happy, but on July 3, 2018, their
happy family life was disrupted when Andrei was detained by the Federal Security Service,
FSB.
My wife and I arrived at the airport at four o'clock in the morning.
When we were at the check-in counter, the FSB officers approached us and said that I was
under investigation.
Andrei was interrogated by the FSB, appeared in court and then spent eight months in pre-trial
detention.
He was prevented from seeing his wife, officials tried to coerce him into incriminating himself.
The authorities shouted and threatened that they could, for example, increase the charges
against me to include terrorism.
And a difficult situation arose.
For some time I stopped receiving letters from my wife, but I received letters from others.
Then a man came and asked me, so what happened to your wife?
Do you know?
Later I realized why this was happening.
They told me that I could return to my wife very soon if I agreed to cooperate or plead
guilty.
Andrei acknowledges that the presence of hundreds of fellow believers who came to court to encourage
him was a great support.
To the discerning mind, it is obvious that law enforcement agencies have crossed all boundaries
by labeling peaceful, law-abiding citizens as extremists.
It's clear that Andrei Stupnikov did not engage in any extremist activities.
He did not incite anyone to violence or discrimination.
Much less employee violent means himself.
All he did was meet with fellow worshippers, participate in religious services and share
his religious views with others.
Why are such peaceful individuals being framed as criminals and imprisoned for six years?
There are many opinions on that question, one of which is that they are an easy target
for law enforcement officers who have caught us to meet in their battle against extremism.
At present Andrei is home, his current pretrial restrictions prohibit certain activities.
And although Andrei's life has changed a lot in the past year, he says that persecution
will not force him to renounce his faith in God.
The judicial proceedings against Andrei Stupnikov are well underway and we will likely find out
very soon if the judge will render a fair and independent decision by acquitting a person
who simply believes in God.